Christ figure is common terminology in the creative writing departments of
Even the most staunchly secular universities because of the irresistible beauty.
Of the Christian redemption story.
Beauty
With one major blemish.
Blood
Christianity is unapologetically bloody.
Old Testament war, a temple sacrificial system, Jesus's cross, and all the early church reflection on Jesus' blood in the New Testament letters. it reads like the.
The beauty of a Virginia Woolf novel and the violence of a Tarantino flick rolled into one.
We remember Jesus by drinking his blood. we sing hymns like, what can wash away my sins?
Nothing but the blood of Jesus.
Think too hard about that metaphor, you'll picture yourself in the climactic scene of an Edgar Allan Poe horror story.
When Hank, our oldest son, was born, Kirsten lost a lot of blood.
During delivery.
so the excitement of greeting our son upon his arrival into the world was immediately replaced by the fear that runs over you when a medical team is rushing and speaking in jargon.
And jar, and you don't understand, except you know it's not good. Well, what's going on? Just hold the baby, Dad. Congratulations. We got to get Mom some help right now.
Over the next 24 hours, Kay received liters of blood. I later learned that she would have died without them.
To that point in my life, blood had only got my attention when I was losing it.
A nosebleed a skin knee a slip of the knife when i was chopping vegetables but in that hospital holding my son taking or talking to his miraculous silly
In recovering happy mom, I saw the power blood holds when it is given.
Power to sustain life where death was unavoidable.
Medically speaking, blood signifies life.
Not death.
Blood feeds and sustains every cell in the body, and biblically speaking,,
Blood signifies life.
Not death.
So maybe the Bible isn't a grotesque, outdated, barbaric religious tale that unfortunately includes bloodshed. Maybe,
It's a medically sophisticated, highly intellectual story about the necessity of blood.
To give and sustain life.
We who only pay attention to blood when we're losing it tend to emphasize the blood Jesus lost, the shed blood.
Of Jesus.
The Bible, on the other hand, seems to emphasize the blood Jesus gave, the shared blood.
And that's an important distinction because medically speaking, shed blood takes life, but shared blood saves it.
Dr. Paul Brand, a surgeon of physician, moved to the Indian village of Valore after medical school in London.
And then the lower became the side of the measles epidemic.
One of his own daughters came down with a severe infection and he knew that she had
Could recover, but their infant daughter, Estelle, was much more vulnerable because of her age.
So word got around the village that the brands needed the blood of an overcomer.
Meaning their baby daughter needed the blood of someone who had contracted the measles and beaten the disease, blood with hard-won immunity.
They found a person, drew blood and donated it to Estelle, who, with the borrowed antibodies successfully fought off the disease.
She overcame measles not on her own, but as the result of a battle that had taken place previously,
in someone else.
A person's blood becomes more potent as that person prevails against an enemy. Flannery O'connor coined the term wise blood for this phenomenon.
because it's a young person borrowing life from someone who has endured suffering and won wisdom.
Hebrews chapter 4.
For we do not have a high priest who is unable to empathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are,
Yet he did not sin.
Wise blood.
Borrowing life from someone who has endured suffering
And one wisdom.
The blood of an overcomer.
Drink from it all of you, the rabbi insisted, passing wine around the night before crucifixion.
Jesus didn't pour out his blood.
He poured in his blood.
In to everyone, humble or desperate enough to admit that they had contracted something terminal.
Drink from it, all of you. That's Jesus for.
This glass holds my life.
which was lived for you and now by the cross you're about to watch me carry is shared with you.
I was tired, frustrated, tempted, and abandoned.
And overcame.
Tomorrow you will find yourselves
Tired, frustrated, tempted, and abandoned.
And unable to overcome.
So drink up.
You can have my strength and share my spirit. I have overcome the world for you. take my life.
into your body, my blood, into your veins. Surely a Friday like this one can only be called good.
Because Jesus wasn't killed tragically, he gave up his life willfully.
surely a friday like this one can only be called good because god didn't stop at the distance of beauty but came close enough to tell a bloody story surely a friday like this one can only be called good because god didn't stop at the distance of beauty but came close enough to tell a bloody story
Friday like this one can only be called good because Jesus didn't shed blood.
He shared it.